the confiscation has reached a critical
point even though this tiny box is
barely big enough to hold her
this young frightened orangutan feels
safer inside but Lona knows how hard it
was to get here on the journey back the
orangutan will be safer in a larger cage
come on out get out come out get out
we've got a twin put the whole cage in
that's your finger to come out she's
been trapped inside for a fortnight
after losing her mother it's the only
security she knows even when the crate
is held upside down she still kinds
tightly to the inside just gonna try to
take a full cage apart around Kobe but
she doesn't want to get out of it I
can't another sitting in that cage over
this long trip it's just not feasible
loner can't risk her escaping into the
night
this really is the best thing for her
for this frightened young thing the
forest and her mother must seem very far
away
sure sometimes I just position in a
vignette pack what you done on what
might look a bit very stressful for her
this but this is so much better for her
in the long run just get out of that
cage because they'd be so safe you guys
are gonna pick up pick up pick up
it must be bewildering for this young
orangutan she probably heard the rumble
of diggers the tearing of trees
retreated as her patch of forest shrank
until it was nothing more than a wooden
crate made from the trees that once grew
around her these few minutes of distress
may seem like hours but loner is
offering her a future it's now gonna be
a long trip her home for her we left the
cage standing up so she has a little bit
more room upwards you know she doesn't
like a head up against everything and
she also doesn't have such a big bottom
to move around in yeah oh yeah
wait a minute cuz i'm mahalia and be
like this you know just before they
leave Lona gives a gift to the
orangutangs captors
despite driving all day seeing this
young orangutan kept in terrible
conditions and knowing that now it will
need years of care she knows these small
acts of kindness make people more likely
to get in touch and saves orangutangs
lives
the team are exhausted it could take all
night to get home but because of them
yet another precious orangutan life has
been saved